Licence Agreement (STAG) from DERA

1. The STAG Computer Model is subject to Copyright owned by the United Kingdom
Secretary of State for Defence acting through the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency
(DERA). It is made available to licensee (hereinafter LICENSEE) on the following conditions:-

2. Downloading the STAG Model deems acceptance of the terms of the licence.

3. DERA grants to LICENSEE a royalty free non-exclusive licence to use the furnished STAG
Model. LICENSEE is permitted to copy, distribute, and transfer the STAG Model to
customers for their royalty free use on the same licence terms.

4. LICENSEE acknowledges that STAG is a research tool still in the development stage, that
it is being supplied "as is", without any accompanying services or improvements from
DERA.

5. LICENSEE acknowledges that STAG is a Model developed by the Department of
Electronics and Computer Science at the University of Southampton (UOS), England, and is
incorporated within SPICE 3f5, a program developed by the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley, California
(UCB). As such, LICENSEE acknowledges that in addition to the rights licensed by DERA,
UCB itself imposes restrictions on use, copying, and distribution of the SPICE 3f5 program
and its derivatives.

6. LICENSEE undertakes to obtain any separate licence required for the use of SPICE 3f5
from UCB.

7. DERA make no representations or warranties, express or implied. DERA shall not be held
liable for any liability nor for any direct, indirect, or consequential damages with respect to
any claim by LICENSEE or any third party on account of or arising from this Agreement or
use of STAG.

8. Title to copyright of all portions of STAG developed at UOS and/or DERA together with
associated documentation shall at all times remain with DERA, and LICENSEE agrees to
preserve same. LICENSEE agrees to ensure that this information and appropriate copyright
notice is reproduced with any copies of STAG or any modified versions derived from it.

9. This agreement shall be construed, interpreted, and applied in accordance with the laws
of England.

for DERA by:

J B EDWARDS
IPD5A 
10 NOV 1997

Intellectual Property Department
Defence Evaluation and Research Agency
St Andrews Road 
Malvern
WR14 3PS
United Kingdom

phone: +44 - 1684 - 894234
fax: +44 - 1684 - 894146
